=head1 NAME

ketchup - a highly customizable pomodoro timer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: I<ketchup-server> [ options ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ketchup is pomodoro timer designed in a client - server manner. This is the
manual for the server. The server is a very lightweight process that can be
ran in the background. It listens on either a TCP or UNIX socket. The protocol
used to communicate with the server is json-rpc.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h HOST, --host=HOST>

Host to listen on when using TCP (I<localhost> by default)

=item B<-p PORT, --port=PORT>

Listen on given TCP port (I<5678> by default)

=item B<-s SOCKET, --socket=SOCKET>

Listen on given UNIX socket (overrides B<PORT>)

=item B<-P DURATION, --pomodoro-duration=DURATION>

Duration of a pomodoro in minutes (25 by default)

=item B<-S DURATION, --short-break-duration=DURATION>

Duration of a short break in minutes (5 by default)

=item B<-L DURATION, --long-break-duration=DURATION>

Duration of a long break in minutes (30 by default)

=item B<-c COUNT, --cycle=COUNT>

A cycle consists of B<COUNT> pomodoros. After a cycle a long break would be
scheduled. (4 by default)

=item B<-?, --help>

Shows a summary of this manual.

=back

=head1 RPC

The json-rpc version used by ketchup is "2.0" and must be provided with the
I<jsonrpc> member in all requests. All requests must also provide a unique
id via the I<id> member. Requests I<must> be sent on a single line ending with
a single line feed character.

Following rpc methods are implemented

=over 4

=item B<start_pomodoro>

will start a pomodoro on the server. Requires a B<params> member of the
following form:

 {"task": "name of the task the pomodoro should be associated with"}

Responds with the B<result> member set to I<"success"> on success or B<error> 
set to a sane json-rpc error object on failure.

=item B<interrupt_pomodoro>

will interrupt a running pomodoro. Accepts an optional B<params> member of the
following form:

 {"reason": "reason for stopping the pomodoro"}

Responds with the B<result> member set to I<"success"> on success or B<error> 
set to a sane json-rpc error object on failure.

=item B<start_break>

will start a break on the server. Accepts no parameters.

Responds with the B<result> member set to I<"success"> on success or B<error> 
set to a sane json-rpc error object on failure.

=item B<status>

queries the server of its current status.

Responds with the B<result> member set to contain an object with the following
members:

 state         the current state of the server.
               one of ["idle", "pomodoro", "break"]

 current_task  the name of the currently running task.
               is omitted from the object if no task is running.

 ends_at       a unix timestamp representing the time at which the state
               will change back to idle. is omitted if the server state is
               "idle".

=back

=head1 CONFIG FILE

ketchup honors a config file which will be looked for first at:

 $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/ketchup/config.yml

and falling back to:

 $HOME/.config/ketchup/config.yml

A documented example config file can be found at /usr/share/doc/ketchup/config.yml.

=head1 HOOKS

ketchup looks for user provided hooks first in:

 $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/ketchup/hooks/

and falling back to:

 $HOME/.config/ketchup/hooks/

Hooks are executable files and they are called by the ketchup server whenever
an event occurs. They may be provided with additional information about the
event via command line arguments. The hooks must be named after the events they
should be called upon. The pwd will be set to the hooks directory.

=over 4

=item B<task_started>

is called each time a pomodoro is started. It gets the name of the started task
passed as its only argument.

=item B<task_stopped>

is called each time either a break is started or a pomodoro is started without
first finishing a break. It gets the name of the stopped task passed as its
only argument.

=item B<pomodoro_finished>

is called each time a pomodoro finishes normally (i.e. is not interrupted). It
gets the name of the task to which this pomodoro was associated with passed as
its only argument.

=item B<pomodoro_interrupted>

is called whenever a pomodoro is interrupted prematurely. It gets the name
of the task to which the pomodoro was associated with as its first argument.
If a reason for interrupting the pomodoro was provided it is passed as second
and last argument.

=item B<break_started>

is called whenever a break is started. It gets the type of the break passed
as its only parameter. The type is either I<short> or I<long>.

=item B<break_finished>

is called whenever a break finishes normally (i.e. is not interrupted by
starting a pomodoro prematurely). It gets the type of the break passed as its
only parameter. The type is either I<short> or I<long>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item B<ketchup>(1)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Joakim Reinert E<lt>mail+ketchup@jreinert.comE<gt>
