=head1 NAME

ketchup - a highly customizable pomodoro timer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: I<ketchup> [ options ] [ E<lt>actionE<gt> [ params ] ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ketchup is pomodoro timer designed in a client - server manner. This is the
manual for the client. The client is a simple command line tool to communicate
with a running ketchup server. Invocations consist of supplying an action to
perform on the server and any applicable options and parameters for the given
action.

=head1 UNIVERSAL OPTIONS

these options can be provided with any and all actions

=over 4

=item B<-h HOST, --host=HOST>

Host to connect to when using TCP (I<localhost> by default)

=item B<-p PORT, --port=PORT>

TCP port to connect to (I<5678> by default)

=item B<-s SOCKET, --socket=SOCKET>

UNIX socket to connect to (overrides B<PORT>)

=item B<-?, --help>

Shows a summary of this manual. If an I<action> is provided shows detailed help
for the given action.

=back

=head1 ACTIONS

if no action is provided B<status> is used

=over 4

=item B<start>

Starts a pomodoro. Needs a single I<task name> argument to specify which task
to associate the pomodoro with.

=item B<interrupt>

Interrupts a running pomodoro. An optional I<reason> can be provided as an
argument to document why the pomodoro was interrupted.

=item B<break>

Starts a break. No arguments are required. The duration of the break depends
on the amount of consecutive finished pomodoros.

=item B<status>

Shows the status of the ketchup server. The output is formatted as follows:

 [state] "task name" ends in HH:MM:SS

=back

=head1 CONFIG FILE

ketchup honors a config file which will be looked for first at:

 $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/ketchup/config.yml

and falling back to:

 $HOME/.config/ketchup/config.yml

A documented example config file can be found at /usr/share/doc/ketchup/config.yml.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item B<ketchup-server>(1)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Joakim Reinert E<lt>mail+ketchup@jreinert.comE<gt>
